Yongjun (John) Park
INFO 474
Visualization

Active Website: 


The axes for the first two graphs are common. The Y-axis is the MIC measurement, while the X-axis is the different types of bacteria.  A log scale was used to scale Y-axis since there were exponential differences among MIC values. This allowed smaller values to be more visible. Then each bar was given either red or purple outlines. This was to intuitively allow users to check for gram staining because gram stain positive bacteria will turn purple, while gram stain negative bacteria will turn red. The bars were filled with pastel tone colors to give the eyes an easier time so that no one set of data will distract the users from another one.

Prior to building the graphs, I asked a few questions that a user of the data may consider finding out. First question is, how do we compare each bacterium for its resilience against each antibiotic. This question would need a very precise way to measure values, meaning I should have the graph readers use the elementary perception of comparing position. Therefore, I built a grouped bar graph, where individual values are more respected and can be inspected thoroughly. However, I then realized that the grouped bar graph did not contain a good way to measure each bacterium’s total resilience. The questions to be answered would be how do we know which bacteria are most resilient overall and which antibiotic is the most ineffective among the bacteria. My answer to these questions was the stacked bar graph. The stacked bar graph allows for easy comparison of all the MIC values combined for each bacterium. Also, using the perception of length and area, the reader can observe which antibiotic is the least efficient in terminating each bacterium. The reader can see that the color that appears as the largest value for each bacterium the most frequently is red; therefore, he or she could hypothesize that Penicillin (red) is becoming the least effective in treating most bacteria. 

After creating graphs to assist observing individual bacteria, I shifted focus towards finding a way to closely observe the antibiotics and their effectiveness. I sought after the most common way to display statistical values that utilize the elementary perception of position and length to create the most precise way to visualize the antibiotic values. The graph I chose was the box plot graph. A box plot graph visualizes the maximum, minimum, quarters, outliers, and median of the MIC values for each antibacterial. The scale here is once again a log scale to better observe the smaller y values. With this graph, we can answer questions such as: which antibiotic is the most effective, is the least effective, or has the highest MIC value overall? With position comparison, length comparison along aligned scale and non-aligned scale, and area comparison all aid the graph reader in this task.
